In the previous lecture we have been talking about how to calculate Shannon entropy for a given feature.
Of course we are interested in the target variable so that's why we have to deal with the Shannon entropy
of playing golf.
Okay then we have to calculate the entropy with respect to a given feature.
As far as the dataset is concerned as you can see we have four features outlook temperature humidity
and wind.
And we have a so-called target valuable whether we are going to play golf or we are not going to play
golf.
So this is the formula we have to use.
We have to find out the probability of the given feature.
We have to multiply it by the entropy.
And finally we have to sum them up.
Let's take a look at the outlook feature.
As you can see there are three possible values of the outlook.
The outlook can be sunny.
It can be over costed and it can be rainy.
So this is why we have sunny overcast and rainy and we have the target valuable whether we are going
to play golf or not.
So basically there are two possible values of playing golf yes and no.
And we just have to count the occurrences.
So for example whenever the outlook is sunny how many yes and no values are there in the play column.
So Sunny has the value you know Sunny has the value you know Dan Sunny has the value you know then Sunny
has the value.
Yes.
And finally Sunny has the value yes.
Which means that there are two yes values and three no values associated with Sunny.
We have to do the same for overcast and we came to the conclusion that we have for yes values and zero
no values.
What about tyranny.
We have three yes values and two no values.
So we just have to use this formula.
We have to calculate the probability of the given the possible values.
What is the probability of Sunny.
We have one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen values all
together and we have to count the occurance of the sunny one two three four and five.
So this is why the probability of sunny as far as the outlook feature is concerned is 5 divide by 14
and we have to calculate the entropy we did these values 2 and 3 this is what we have been talking about
in the previous lecture that calculating this entropy we just have to use this simple formula this is
called the Shannon entropy so the probability times the base to logarithm of the probability and we
have to sum them up.
So in this case 4 9 and 5 we had something like this.
Whenever we have 2 and 3 what do we have to do we have to use to divide by 5.
Base 2 logarithm 2 divide by 5 minus 3 divide by 5 Base 2 logarithm 3 divide by 5.
So we have to use the same formula as here but of course with we did these values.
So 2 and 3 and it has a value zero dark 9 7 and 1.
So basically this is what we have to do what is the probability of overcast we have 14 values altogether
and we have to count the occurance of the overcast so 1 2 3 and 4 so this is why for the wide by 14
is the probability that the outlook is over cost data and what is the entropy for 4 and 0 is going to
be 0 plus the probability of rainy how many rainy values are there in the outlook column we have a one
two three four and five.
So that's why 5 divide by 14 is the probability of raining and we have to calculate the entropy with
3 and to you again we have to use this formula with the Shannon entropy by the way if we sum up the
probabilities of course we end up with 1 so 5 divide by 14 plus for the wide by 14 plus 5 y by 14 is
equal to 1 of course.
Okay so this is how we calculate the entropy we do is back to a given predictor or feature.
And what about information gain information gain is the most important value as far as decision trees
are concerned.
So first of all what is information gain information gain is the decreasing entropy after the data set
is split on a given attribute or feature feature and attribute with the highest information gain will
be the root node in the tree in the previous lecture we have managed to construct the decision tree
but it is a good question that how do we decide what is going to be the root node.
How do we decide whether we have to split a given node or not.
This is why we have to deal with information gained so the information gained as far as outlook is concerned
is the entropy of playing golf minus the entropy of playing golf with respect to outlook.
Okay so we have calculated the entropy of playing golf which is zero 9 4.
So this is why we have this value and we have calculated the entropy of playing golf with respect to
outlook which is zero dot six nine thirty six.
OK.
So this is why we use this value.
And the result is going to be 0 that 2 7 4.
So it is the information gain of playing golf with respect to outlook.
And this is what we have to do with all the features.
So for Outlook temperature humidity and wind and the feature with the highest information gain is going
to be the root node in the tree.
We just have to calculate this information gain for all the outer features such as temperature humidity
and wind.
And we have to choose the one with the highest value.
Why is it good.
Because if we have the feature with the highest information gain we know that it's going to be the root
node in the decision tree because it is the most relevant feature.
So this is how we are able to end up with an algorithm capable of constructing a decision tree.
OK.
We just have to track that.
If an entropy for a given branch is greater than the one we have to split the given feature.
So as far as overcast is concerned we don't have to split any further.
But as far as humidities concerned we have to split it into high and normal as far as wind is concerned
as a feature we have to split it further into true or false and the leaf nodes are the target for valuables
whether we are going to play tennis or not.
So after constructing the decision tree based on entropy and information gain we just have to traverse
these three like structure.
If the outlook is sunny and it is windy then we are going to play golf.
If the outlook is rainy the humidity is high.
We are not going to play golf.
So basically this is the aim of constructing a tree like structure like this because we are able to
predict the target valuable for given features such as Outlook temperature humidity and wind.
OK.
In the next lecture we are going to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of decision trees.
And finally we are going to take a look at the concrete implementation.
Thanks for watching.